President Donald Trump struck a nakedly political tone during a Thanksgiving call with US service members stationed around the world as he steered the conversation toward controversial political topics.

Speaking with a US general in Afghanistan, Trump likened the fight against terrorists to his efforts to prevent a group of migrants from illegally entering the United States, and he assailed federal judges who have ruled against his administration. The President also pressed the commanding officer of a Coast Guard ship in Bahrain on trade before touting his trade policies and arguing that "every nation in the world is taking advantage of us."
Trump calls 9th Circuit a &#39;big thorn in our side,&#39; accuses judges of imperiling US security
Trump calls 9th Circuit a 'big thorn in our side,' accuses judges of imperiling US security
US Presidents have traditionally called troops stationed abroad during the holidays to boost morale and remind the country of their service, making Trump's rhetoric yet another striking break from the norms of presidential behavior. After the call wrapped, Trump entertained more than two dozen questions from reporters and once again discredited a CIA assessment about the killing of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi.
"This was, sadly, predictable and avoidable," said retired Rear Adm. John Kirby, a CNN military and diplomatic analyst. "The President's conduct on that call, the manner in which he politicized it, demonstrated an utter and complete disregard for what military service means."
Trump has not shied away from politicizing the military in the past, and on Thursday, he drew on US men and women in uniform to justify his controversial deployment of nearly 6,000 US troops to the southern border. Without evidence, he painted Air Force Gen. David Lyons as a proponent of his hardline immigration policies after Lyons said US troops are fighting in Afghanistan to prevent terrorists from reaching "our shores again."
Trump conducting interviews for administration positions at Mar-a-Lago
Trump conducting interviews for administration positions at Mar-a-Lago
"Large numbers of people are forming at our border and I don't even have to ask you, I know what you want to do, you want to make sure that you know who we're letting in. And we're not letting in anybody essentially because we want to be very, very careful," Trump said, speaking to Lyons over the phone. "You're right, you're doing it over there. We're doing it over here."
The topic brought Trump to another familiar airing of grievances, as he complained over the phone to the general that the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has "become a big thorn in our side."
"It's a terrible thing when judges take over your protective services, when they tell you how to protect your border. It's a disgrace," Trump said. "It's a disgrace."